
=== PAGE 1 ===
Project Report  Autoclaved Aerated Concrete  [AAC] Blocks Plant  LEOCON  INFRA  Address  Plot - 22  APIIC Mydukur  Kadapa, AP

=== PAGE 2 ===
AAC   Blocks  The   Autoclaved   Aerated   Concrete   (AAC)   material   was   developed   in   1920   in   Sweden .   It   has   become   one   of  the   most   used   building   materials   in   Europe   and   is   rapidly   growing   in   many   other   countries   around   the  world .  Autoclaved   Aerated   Concrete   Blocks   are   lightweight,   load - bearing,   high - insulating,   durable   building   product,  which   is   produced   in   a   wide   range   of   sizes   and   strength .  AAC   is   produced   out   of   a   mix   of   pulverized   fly   ash,   lime,   cement,   gypsum,   water   and   aluminium   and   is  hardened   by   steam -   curing   in   autoclaves .  The   block   hardness   is   being   achieved   by   cement   strength,   and   instant   curing   mechanism   by   autoclaving .  Gypsum   acts   as   a   long   term   strength   gainer .   The   chemical   reaction   due   to   the   aluminum   paste   provides  AAC   its   distinct   porous   structure,   lightness,   and   insulation   properties,   completely   different   compared   to  other   lightweight   concrete   materials .   The   finished   product   is   a   2 . 5   times   lighter   Block   compared   to  conventional   Bricks,   while   providing   the   similar   strengths .  AAC   Blocks   are   used   in   many   building   constructions,   like   residential   homes,   commercial   and   industrial  buildings,   schools,   hospitals,   hotels   and   many   other   applications .   AAC   Blocks   offers   incredible   opportunities  to   increase   building   quality   and   at   the   same   time   reduces   costs   at   the   construction   site .  This   unit   is   proposed   to   manufacture   AAC   Blocks   by   consuming   the   Fly - Ash   as   one   of   the   prime   raw  material .   Fly - Ash,   a   major   raw   material   with   70 %   proportion   in   AAC   Blocks,   an   indispensable   by -   product   of  Thermal   Power   Plants,   is   an   environmental   threat   across   the   globe .  Market  Fly   ash   is   available   continuously   and   of   satisfactory   quality .   Users   are   of   the   opinion   that   strength,  durability,   finish,   availability,   price   are   the   important   qualities   in   blocks .  Very   high   willingness   is   observed   among   traditional   manufacturers   regarding   use   of   fly   ash   in   their  products .   Technical   assistance   &   increased   product   awareness   among   the   public   are   considered   important  for   promoting   the   shift   in   the   manufacturing   practices .  High   preference   for   fly   ash   products   is   observed   among   those   customers   contacting   manufacturers .  Increased   media   coverage   &   favorable   policies   are   considered   key   for   increasing   utilization   of   fly   ash   bricks  &   blocks .  The   current   prices   of   fly   ash   blocks   are   in   the   same   range   of   cement   blocks   &   traditional   bricks .   But  comparatively   fly   ash   blocks   are   having   more   strength,   fire   resistance,   earthquake   resistance,   light   weight,  lesser   breakage   and   saves   structural   cost   by   40 % .  Since   60 %   of   country’s   electricity   comes   from   coal   based   power   station,   the   country   has   a   huge   stock   of   fly  ash   amounting   to   60   million   tons   annually .  Despite   the   entire   efforts   present   scenario   is   not   too   encouraging   as   only   5 %   of   country’s   total   ash   has  been   consumed   in   different   sectors .  With   the   rise   in   population   and   increase   in   constructional   activities   considering   the   improvement   in   the  standard   of   living   the   demand   for   building   bricks   is   increasing   day   by   day .

=== PAGE 3 ===
Why AAC Blocks ?  Cost   Saving  AAC   Blocks   make   the   construction   economical,   being   about   66 %   lighter   than   conventional   clay   bricks,   it   has  the   following   assured   savings  ▪   25 %   reduction   in   foundation   load  ▪   15 %   reduction   in   steel   usage  ▪   10 %   reduction   in   cement   usage  ▪   35 %   reduction   in   cost   if   plastering   &   labour  Time   Saving  AAC   Blocks   are   lightweight,   dry   and   set   quickly,   make   them   a   faster   option   over   the   conventional   clay   bricks .  As   a   result   builder   is   able   to   finish   a   project   faster   than   estimated .  Uniform   in   Size  AAC   Blocks   comes   in   pre - defined   sizes   and   constant   dimensions   which   minimizes   the   time   of   adjusting  them   according   to   the   requirement .  Fire   &   Acoustics   Resistant  AAC   Blocks   has   the   highest   hourly   fire - resistant   ratings   per   inch   of   any   building   material . It   will   not   burn   ,   it  has   the   excellent   thermal   and   acoustic   insulation   which   makes   it   best   suited   for   air   conditioned   and   fire  rated   buildings .  Earthquake   Resistant  The   impact   of   earthquake   foreced   on   a   structure   in   proportional   to   the   weight   of   the   structure .   Hence   AAC  blocks   provides   excellent   resistance   to   earthquake   forces .  Less   Breakage  AAC   Blocks   have   negligible   breakage   and   drastically   reduce   wastage   with   increased   utilisation  Pest   Resistant  AAC   Blocks   are   made   up   of   inorganic   materials,   which   does   not   get   disintegrated,   it   is   not   susceptible   to  external   influences   and   keeps   termites   away   avoiding   damage   and   losses .  Enhances   the   Carpet   Area  AAC   Blocks   achieve   higher   wall   strength   in   thinner   walls   than   conventional   bricks   achieve   in   thick   walls .   This  results   in   increase   in   usable   carpet   area   on   every   floor .  Advantages   Applications

=== PAGE 4 ===
Production   Flowchart  Raw Materials  Flow Chart

=== PAGE 5 ===
Production   Process  1 . Coal   Fly   Ash  The   coal   fly   ash   will   be   sent   to   the   slurry   preparing   pond   by   wheel   loader   to   be   prepared   required   concentration  coal   fly   ash   slurry   by   add   rated   water,   which   will   be   pumped   into   slurry   tank   to   be   stored   and   ready   to   be   used .  2 .   Lime  The   powder   will   be   sent   into   the   lime   powder   silo   for   storage   and   ready   to   be   used   by   bucket   elevator,   after  coming   into   the   factory .  3 .   Gypsum  The   gypsum   in   the   storage   shed   will   be   added   into   slurry   pond   according   to   the   required   proportion,   while  preparing   slurry .  4 .   Cement  The   cement   will   be   transported   into   factory   by   tank   truck   and   directly   is   pumped   into   cement   silo   to   be   used .  5 .   Aluminium   Powder  The   purchased   aluminium   powder   past   in   the   bucket   or   bag   will   be   stored   in   its   storehouse,   When   being   used,   it  will   be   lifted   to   second   floor   of   the   batching   building,   then   measured   and   added   into   aluminium   mixer   to   prepare  5 %   suspending   liquid   to   be   used .  6 .   Waste   &   Scrape   Slurry  The   cleaning   waste   water   under   the   casting   machine   will   be   pumped   to   ball   mill   to   be   used   as   grinding   water .  The   scrape   from   the   cutting   machine   will   be   prepared   to   slurry   and   pumped   into   waste   slurry   tank   to   be   used .  7 .   BATCHING,   MIXING   and   CASTING :  Coal   fly   ash   will   be   sent   to   electronic   scale   in   the   batching   building   by   pump   at   the   bottom   slurry   tank   to   be  measured .   When   the   slurry   concentration   arrives   at   batching   requirement,   the   control   system   will   turn   off   the  pump   to   stop   pump   slurry .   The   measured   the   slurry   will   be   directly   discharged   into   casting   mixer .   Lime   and  cement   will   be   sent   to   electronic   scale   in   the   batching   building   by   single   screw   conveyer   at   the   bottom   of   their  silos .   When   measuring   arrives   at   the   required   quantity,   they   will   be   sent   to   casting   mixer   by   screw   conveyer .  Aluminium   powder   will   be   measured   by   manual,   and   added   into   aluminium   mixer   to   be   prepared   suspending  liquid   one   by   one   for   each   mould .   The   finished   suspending   liquid   can   be   directly   added   into   the   casting   mixer .  The   slurry   temperature   should   be   arrived   at   required   process   temperature   before   casting .   And   mould   will   be  moved   to   the   bottom   of   the   casting   mixer   by   ferry   car .  8 .   CUTTING   AND   GROUPING :  After   pre - curing,   the   green   block   arrive   at   the   required   strength,   the   crane   will   take   it   to   the   cutting   machine  section .   After   removing   the   mould ,   the   green   block   will   be   cut   according   to   the   required   size .   The   green   block  after   cutting   will   be   moved   to   the   curing   trolley   with   the   bottom   plate   by   crane   in   front   of   autoclave   for  grouping .   The   seven   trolley   for   each   autoclave   with   14   pieces   of   green   block .  9 .   AUTOCLAVED   AND   FINISHED   PRODUCT :  The   green   block   after   grouping,   will   be   moved   into   the   autoclave   by   windlass   for   curing .   The   whole   curing   period  is   approx .   12 h,   pressure   approx . 1 . 2 Mpa,   temperature   approx .   1850 .   After   curing,   the   product   will   be   pulled   out   of  autoclave,   and   be   sent   to   the   store   yard .  10 .   THE   BOTTOM   PLATE   RETURNING,   COMBINING   WITH   MOULD   AND   OILING :  After   unloading,   the   side   plate   on   the   trolley   will   be   lifted   for   returning   rail   by   crane,   and   be   returned   to   the   side  of   the   cutting   machine,   which   will   be   combined   with   the   mould   and   sent   to   mould   returning   line   for   cleaning   and  oiling   to   be   reused .

=== PAGE 6 ===
Production   Cost  AAC   Production   Cost  AAC   Blocks   Production   cost   per   1   Cubic   Meter   at   Mydukur .  S.NO   Material   Consumption (KG)   Rate/Ton   Rate/KG   Total Price  1   Flyash   520   350   0.35   122  2   Cement   100   6000   6   600  3   Lime   20   8000   8   160  4   Aluminium   0.45   3,00,000   300   135  5   Waste Wood   30   3000   3   90  6   Manpower   250  7   Water & Power   200  8   Wastage & Misc.   100  Total   1657  AAC   Blocks   Cubic   Meter   Calculations   and   Market   Price  AAC   Blocks   Production   cost   per   1   Cubic   Meter   at   Mydukur .  1   M 3   is   equal   to   590   Red   Clay   Bricks  Block   Dimensions   No. of Blocks/m3   Market Rate   Avg Value  4 Inch   24 * 8 * 4   83   50 - 60   4500  6 Inch   24 * 8 * 6   55   75 - 85   4400  9 Inch   24 * 8 * 9   36   110 - 120   4150  S.NO   Block Density  Oven Dry Condition Kg/m3  Comprehensive Strength Min   Thermal Conductivity  Air Dry Condition (W/ m.k ) Grade 1 (N/mm2)   Grade 2 (N/mm2)  1   451   –   550   2.0   1.5   0.21  2   551   –   650   4.0   3.0   0.24  3   651   –   750   5.0   4.0   0.30  4   751   –   850   6.0   5.0   0.37  5   851   -   1000   7.0   6.0   0.42  AAC   Blocks   Technical   Specifications

=== PAGE 7 ===
Plant   and   Machinery  AAC   Blocks   Production   Unit   –   50 m 3   Model  Capacity   –   50   m 3   Per   Day  15 , 000   m 3   Per   Annum   [ 300   Working   Days]  50 M 3   Plant   Layout
